{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red56\green110\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14500\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Jordi\'92s Comments
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
First of all, I really believe you have a potentially innovative and important paper.\'a0 I agree that we know little about the genetic basis of networks structure.\'a0 In the recent paper by Shai Pilosof one explores somehow this issue, but the nature of the evidence is correlational and one can not infer causality.\'a0 The major advantage of your study is that it is experimental and one could assume causality.\'a0 I think this is important in also presenting a case study where network study is directly affected by the role of natural selection operating on the variability of plants.\'a0 The presentation of the paper, angle, and in general the writing are quite good and serve well the purpose of the above rational.\'a0 In sum, this is very promising package.\
\

\b0 I agree that this is an important strength of the manuscript. I have attempted to further emphasize this point in the Introduction (DETAILS NEEDED).
\b \
\
My main question/concern resonates very much with what Miguel has already said.\'a0 In my case, I would not worry too much about the intrinsic issues associated to modularity.\'a0 Being Miguel absolutely right in his message, this limitation is shared by all papers addressing modularity and I think that keeping them in mind and being conservative in your conclusions is enough.\'a0 I also agree with you that modularity seems the right network structure to look at in this type of genetic data.\'a0 My confusion is about what is a network.\'a0 Having 4 replicates of 26 genotypes is impressing.\'a0 Ideally, I would like to have 26 networks, each with replicates. \'a0replicates would serve to have intervals (mean and sd) of the value of modularity.\'a0 I guess the problem is that networks are small and perhaps---as suggested by Miguel---topologically identical and only differentiated through the weights.\'a0 I understand this likely limitation.\'a0 Still, the beauty of having 26 replicated networks is too high.\'a0 Perhaps once should then discuss about the best approach to characterize these small networks.\'a0 And here I have to say I very much adhere to Miguel's suggestion to just compare network similarity (through Poisot's approach) and genotype similarity.\'a0 This solves the problem of working with networks too small to have enough power to characterize any network structure (modularity or nestedness).\'a0\
\

\b0 As I mentioned in my previous email, we do have ~5 replicates of 26 willow genotypes. I think it is important to note though that the way I was measuring modularity before is qualitatively different than measuring the modularity of each of the networks on the 26 genotypes. My previous methods looks for modularity among tritrophic interactions (albeit in a bipartite framework), whereas looking for modularity among each of the genotype\'92s 26 networks looks for modules between the herbivores and parasitoids on each genotype. Given the small number of herbivores and parasitoids total, let alone the ones observed on each willow genotype, I believe any measure of network structure would be highly correlated with total species richness. \
\
Therefore, I do agree that comparing network (dis)similarity is the best approach, using Poisot\'92s approach. By characterizing network dissimilarity, we will also be able to test whether genotype explains a significant proportion of the variance using straight-forward methods used for analyzing dissimilarity in community composition. These methods have been well developed and I am very familiar for using this approach to analyze my data. For the Poisot approach, I have decided to analyze network dissimilarity both quantitatively and qualitatively. While Poisot\'92s approach was originally developed for qualitative networks, I have modified his code to be used for quantitative ones. His approval of this code and subsequent incorporation to his R package is currently pending, but I think it would be valuable to use both approaches to compare network dissimilarity to see how consistent they are in their conclusions. 
\b \
\
One potential tip: if at the end the difference between the 26 networks is also weighted, perhaps one could look at eveness of interactions.\'a0 Jason Tylianakis, in his great 2007 Nature paper did something similar.\'a0 More recently, Amanda Rodewald and us also used eveness. \'a0\
\

\b0 I have considered using evenness and found (DETAILS).
\b \
\
Regarding your questions, I do not think that it is a weakness of this paper not explicitly exploring the dynamic implications of modularity.\'a0 I think it suffices citing papers such as Daniel and mine's or similar ones.\'a0 Sometimes you may risk it by trying to add too much in a paper.\'a0 And frankly, all these models have weaknesses.\'a0 I would stick to your great and novel experimental approach. \'a0\
\

\b0 Okay, I just wanted to check in with you guys about this one. I am totally content with keeping the paper \'91as is\'92, by focusing the novel experimental approach and making suggestions about the potential dynamical implications of genetic variation on network structure.
\b \
\
Regarding the mapping between module identity and plant trait, I have not a clear take, but either options (1) and (2) seem OK to me.\'a0 I would go for the one that provides a clearer insight. \'a0\
\

\b0 I will have to do some thinking about which of these is the best approach. Either the dissimilarity or the RDA type approach. I will figure out which of these is best. One of the approaches I mentioned previously, discriminant function analysis (DFA), was no longer relevant. This is because DFA focuses on predicting categorical response variables and now that we are using a continuous approach to characterize these networks, I think either using the Mantel Test or RDA will be the best approach. I will have to do some thinking as to which one would be best. I also need to decide whether to look at everything down to the phenotype level, or the genotype level, or both. And if the genotype level, what would be the best approach for doing this? Perhaps taking the average values of each interaction occurring on each willow genotype?
\b \
\
To wrap this up, there is an important decision to take regarding what your unit of a network is.\'a0 This will impose going one direction or another.\'a0 However, as said before, the potential is here. \'a0\
\

\b0 As mentioned previously, I think the having each network resolved to the tree-level will give us the opportunity to analyze a truly novel dataset.
\b \
\
As Miguel, I would be almost out of reach from now until we start a routine in our new offices in Zurich.\'a0 But I hope that at the very least this provides enough feed-back to keep you busy.\'a0 Hopefully this may serve to obtain an even stronger paper.\
\

\b0 Thanks for your quick responses before. So far, I feel like the manuscript is much improved.\
\

\b \ul Miguel\'92s Comments\ulnone \
\
The first thing I would like to see is the raw data, or at least understand clearly what kind of data you have. In the Material and Methods section you say that the common garden experiment consisted of 26 different genotypes, and you collected all galls from about 5 randomly chosen replicates of each genotype. Why didn't you collect the galls from the same number of replicates of each genotype? That would have been the procedure to follow, just to be consistent with the control conditions this experiment offers you. I think that should be explained in the text. \
\

\b0 As is the nature of field work sometimes, it is not always easy to have a completely balanced design. I also decided to sample more trees if I had the time available, which led to some slight imbalances in the number of replicates per genotype. However, it is important to note that I only sampled one branch (~200 shoots) per replicate plant. However, there weren\'92t always 200 shoots and the number of shoots varied a lot among the branches (SD = DETAILS). Keeping track of the exact number of shoots sampled would have been prohibitively time consuming in sampling these galls, so I chose the most efficient method. I also wasn\'92t as concerned about this, because statistical models can easily incorporate these slight imbalances and control for differences in sampling (i.e. number of shoots), which I relied upon. As I see it, this is not a major weakness, but I have tried to make this sampling more clear in the text. It is by no means \'92atypical\'92 for common garden experiments of this type that are sampling arthropod communities.
\b \
\
From these data I guess you can build 26 host-parasitoid networks, one per each willow genotype. But, by looking at figure 1, I see only 25 trees (circles at the bottom). Why? \
\

\b0 This was an oversight on my part. One of the Genotypes we sampled we never observed a gall-parasitoid interaction, although we did collect a small number of galls from each genotype. I have made this more clear in the Methods of the manuscript. Lines (DETAILS).
\b \
\
Besides, I do not see anywhere along the ms what the total number of species in the network is, what we could call the species comprising the "fundamental network" (5 herbivore hosts and 8 parasitoid species). I use the word "fundamental" to differentiate it from the "realized" network. Those terms are analogous to the concepts introduced by G. E. Hutchinson to distinguish among the fundamental and the realized niche of a species. We could use it here. If host i and parasitoid j interact on the willow genotype k, that interaction could "potentially" happen on any other genotype. The set of interactions detected on any willow genotype defines the "fundamental species interaction network", while the subset of those interactions that are found in a particular willow genotype constitutes the "realized species interaction network" occurring on that particular willow genotype. \
\

\b0 I will make the number of species in the \'91fundamental network\'92 more clear in the manuscript (5 herbivore hosts and 8 parasitoid species), even though I had already mentioned in the Introduction when I was explaining the system. I have reiterated these details in the Results, along with the total number of interactions observed in the network LINES DETAILS). I also gave some more details that I refer to in the Appendix demonstrating that we have likely sampled all of the interactions from this fundamental network.\
\
I am familiar with Hutchinson\'92s fundamental and realized niche of a species, and I agree that these concepts are useful analogous descriptions of the different networks. Similarly, Poisot referred to the fundamental network as the \'91metaweb\'92 (term introduced by Dunne 2006), but also used the term \'91realized\'92 network for the subsets of the metaweb. I don\'92t know which would be the best terminology to use here. On the one hand, I like the classic reference to Hutchinson\'92s work, but on the other hand, I\'92m cautious about introducing some new terminology that has already been used and also has relevant links to metacommunity theory. I have decided that the best option would be to DETAILS.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Dunne, J.A. (2006). The network structure of food webs. In: Ecological Networks:\
Linking Structure to Dynamics in Food Webs (eds author"Pascual, M. & Dunne, J.\
A.) . Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp. 27
\f0 \'96
\f1 86.
\f0\b\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
So the interesting question here is, why are those host-parasitoid interactions distributed along the willow genotypes in the way the do? What is the mechanism responsible for the absence of some interactions on some willow genoptypes? The answer would be: the genotypic variation underlying the phenotypic variation within the plant population harboring the herbivores and their parasitoids. You can think of those 26 species interaction networks as networks distributed along an ecological gradient. Environmental filtering would make some species (herbivores or/and parasitoid) absent from some networks because of the ecological conditions of the gradient. What you have in your study is a phenotypic gradient with a genetic basis. But this is much more interesting because it links directly network structure with evolutionary processes. If you proof that there are differences in the structure of the host-parasitoid network occurring on each willow genotype (or among some distinct sets of genotypes), selective pressures on the willows would drive the structure of the host-parasitoid networks and, in turn, affect the evolution of the willows since the interactions could potentially affect the fitness of individual willows. I think your experimental setting allows you to proof the first one from the two ways direction: that is, evolution drives ecology. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 I think you have clarified the key point of this manuscript. This revised version of the ms, I have tried to make some of these links more clear.
\b \
\
After all this discussion (surely we already discussed it at some point), I am wondering why you are not working with the 26 networks. One reason could be the small sample size of some networks (perhaps less that 5 hosts and less than 8 parasitoids?). Another reason could be that there are not qualitative differences in network structure among genotypes (all interactions appear on all genotypes), just changes in interaction strength (frequency of interactions on each genotype). If the reason is the second one, I see why you consider every distinct host-parasitoid interaction as a different node in a bipartite willow genotype-host-parasitoid bipartite network. I would also understand why you have used a quantitative formulation of the modularity function that the algorithm tries to optimize. \
\

\b0 As mentioned previously, I have decided to use the full resolution of my dataset and taking advantage of Poisot\'92s approach. 
\b \
\
Regarding the modularity analysis, please check that Q ranges from 0 to 1. I think the minimum Q would be the resulting from a random network (which has always a Q value larger than 0).\
\

\b0 I see your point and I have double-checked this. DETAILS.
\b \
\
 In relation to this, it is difficult for me to imagine a null model for a quantitative bipartite network that preserves the total sum of each column and each row at the same time (I understand how the swap algorithm works for qualitative bipartite networks, but not for quantitative ones).\
\

\b0 DETAILS.
\b \
\
Changing the subject now to characterizing the phenotypic variation of the willow genotypes, I am wondering whether you can build a trait-based similarity matrix among the 26 willow genotypes using the 40 phenotypic traits (as it is done, for example, to build trait-based phylogenies). Assuming you can work with the 26 interaction networks, there is a method that allows you to build a similarity matrix among networks based on the pattern of links (Poisot et al. Ecol. Lett.). Then, both matrices could be used to check whether phenotypic differences between genotypes are correlated with network differences in the pattern of interactions between herbivores and parasitoids (by doing, for example, a Mantel test). That would mean that the larger the phenotypic differences between two willow genotypes the larger the differences in the pattern of interactions among host herbivores and their parasitoids.\
\

\b0 NEED TO DETERMINE WHETHER MANTEL TEST OR RDA APPROACH IS BEST.
\b \
\
Going back to the figures, I think figure 2 is misleading because the x axis suggests some directionally while it is not the case. It only indicates the different genotypes. There is no tendency at all (but it gives the feeling that there is one). I would do a box-plot indicating the mean and variance (stdev) in the number of galls per 100 shoots (A) for each herbivore species (I would remove panel B and indicate in the text the mean and stdev of the Iteomyia gall size). I think the kind of representation you are using would make sense if, for example, you give some phenotypic measure along the x-axis. \
\

\b0 RESPOND TO AFTER IDENTIFYING NEW FIGURES FOR MS.
\b \
\
In addition, I would remove figure 3 since those data do not allow to trace any tendency regarding gall size.\
\

\b0 I don\'92t entirely understand your point on Figure 3. 
\b \
\
Finally, I would begin the Introduction with the paragraph starting at line 12: "Studies quantifying the structure of ecological networks have been resolved ...". I think that should be the main point of the ms. It is a novel and largely unexplored topic. I would point at some references regarding individual-level networks (see some papers by Jens Oleson and collaborators, for example: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1600-0706.2010.18699.x/abstract"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1600-0706.2010.18699.x/abstract}}). I am not sure if a modularity analysis would be enough to get the most of your work. I feel something more can be done. Let's think the both of us more about it.\
\

\b0 I agree. In the revised ms, I have DETAILS.
\b \
\
Regarding what would be an appropriate journal, I would say Ecology or Journal of Ecology.\
\

\b0 Ok, GIVE MY RESPONSE.
\b \
\
Regarding the weaknesses you point out in the email:\
1) I agree. As it is now, the analysis does not allow to make a clear link between genetic variation and the dynamical implication of network structure. If, for example, a relationship between nestedness and genetic/phenotypic variation were found (working at the 26-networks level), or between differences in the network pattern (measured following Poisot et al.) and phenotypic differences, we could do some suggestions on how genetic variation could drive community dynamics.\
\

\b0 Okay. To alleviate this weakness, at both your suggest and Jordi\'92s, I will make some suggestions for how genetic variation could drive community dynamics.
\b \
\
2) I would not go much more far with the modularity analysis. In the last years I feel this kind of analysis is not as robust as I would like, since it relies on a heuristic process, it is highly dependent on network characteristics, and saying "is statistically significant or not" depends on the null model implemented (but it is difficult to quantify the strength of its effect). But this is my personal view. This technique is still widely used (do not feel panic, please!). \

\b0 \
Yes, I completely understand the weakness of the modularity analysis and was aware of it as I was drafting this manuscript, in terms of trying to put all of the interactions into a \'91single box\'92. I think we can use it if necessary, DETAILS.
\b \
\
Please, be careful with the within-module degree and the participation coefficient if you decide to use them (they were introduced by Guimera and Amaral in a unipartite network context and should be redefined if you want to use it in a bipartite network).\
\

\b0 You are right, I was pretty cavalier with its use here. There is a function provided in the bipartite package and I\'92m pretty convinced that it is useful. DETAILS ON WHETHER TO KEEP IT.
\b \
\
Regarding your last point, please see our latest collaboration ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nature.com/ncomms/2014/141014/ncomms6172/abs/ncomms6172.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 http://www.nature.com/ncomms/2014/141014/ncomms6172/abs/ncomms6172.html}}). This line of research (predicting a link given a set of species attributes) was initiated in ecology with the paper by Ives and Godray ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/505157"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/505157}}) and more recently by Rafferty and Ives ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.esajournals.org/doi/abs/10.1890/12-1948.1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 http://www.esajournals.org/doi/abs/10.1890/12-1948.1}}).\
\

\b0 I have looked at these different methods and have decided DETAILS.}