{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri720\sl480\slmult1

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Simulation Methods Backup\
Intraspecific genetic variation increases network complexity.
\i\b0  
\i0 To examine this, we designed a resampling procedure to estimate the complexity of the plant-insect food web at different levels of genetic variation (range = 1 to 25 genotype polycultures) from our empirical data. We omitted 1 of the 26 genotypes from this analysis (Genotype U) because we never found any galls on the branches we sampled. Our resampling procedure consisted of the following two steps. (1) \ul Generate quantitative matrices\ulnone : In order to ensure willow genotypes had equal sampling effort, we randomly sampled 4 individual willows of each genotype (without replacement) and their corresponding trophic interactions (willow-gall and gall-parasitoid). Next, we calculated the total abundance of each trophic interaction associated with each genotype, resulting in a quantitative matrix of 25 genotypes (rows) and 16 unique trophic interactions (columns). (2) \ul Sample-based rarefaction\ulnone : with this matrix, we randomly sampled 1 to 25 genotypes (without replacement), 1000 times each, and calculated the total abundance of each trophic interaction associated with each level of genetic variation. We made sure to remove redundant combinations of genotypes generated by our random sampling. We then calculated food-web complexity (described in paragraph below) for each sample, and then calculated the average complexity for each level of genetic variation. Finally, we repeated this sampling procedure on 40 different matrices to quantify the variability in our estimates of average food-web complexity. Taken together, this resampling procedure is an adaptation of sample-based rarefaction of species richness (cite Gotelli and Colwell 2001) for food-web complexity.\
\
\
While it is relatively straightforward to In order to estimate \
Since our resampling has a hierarchical structure (i.e. 1 to 25 genotypes), it is possible to additively partition the rarefaction curve into two different components.  With a sample-based rarefaction curve, it is possible the  A valuable property of sample-based rarefaction \
\
As is, the resampling procedure described above will not enable us to accurately partition food-web complexity into ALPHA AND BETA COMPONENTS. This is because our estimates of beta include: (1) the increased probability of sampling genotypes with distinct trophic interactions and (2) the inherent increase in sampling effort (i.e. number of plants sampled) with increasing genetic variation (e.g. N = 4 plants for monocultures, N = 100 plants for polycultures of 25 genotypes). To account for this, we slightly modified our resampling procedure so that we could estimate average food-web complexity in monocultures based on progressively higher levels of sampling effort (1 \'96 4 plants). Specifically, we generated a quantitative matrix at a particular level of sampling (see step 1 in previous paragraph). We then calculated food-web complexity for each genotype and then calculated the average complexity of the monocultures. We repeated this procedure 1,000 times for the four different levels of sampling effort to obtain 1,000 estimates of the average complexity of monocultures at each level of sampling effort. However, we now need a method that will extrapolate the food-web complexity of monocultures of 100 plants, so we can directly compare this to food-web complexity in polycultures of 25 genotypes (100 plants). To do this, we used non-linear regression to fit the parameters of the Michaelis-Menton equation. This equation is useful as a phenomenological model of a saturating function. Indeed, we found that it provided a good fit to the data (
\i R\super 2
\i0 \nosupersub  = 0.88, , where 
\i N\sub m
\i0 \nosupersub  = number of plants in monoculture). Still, we have to be cautious about our extrapolation. To test the validity of this extrapolation, we used our data on genetic variation in food-web complexity to ask the question: suppose we only had data on the first four levels, of genetic variation, how accurate would this function be in extrapolating to polycultures of 25 genotypes. This is valuable because we already have the observed mean value of food-web complexity in polycultures that we can compare our estimate to. We found that while some of the parameters changed compared to the full model with all 25 genotypes, that it gave an estimate of 2.25 for the 25 polyculture food-web, compared to the observed mean of 2.20 (< 2% difference) (based on 4 genotypes, slight difference in parameters , where 
\i N\sub G
\i0 \nosupersub  = number of genotypes). For the original data, (based on 25 genotypes, 
\i R\super 2
\i0 \nosupersub  = 0.96, , where 
\i N\sub G
\i0 \nosupersub  = number of genotypes). Deviation from observed mean food-web complexity in polycultures of 25 genotypes was less than a tenth of 1% (difference = 0.0006).\
\
We also tried fitting non-asymptotic models of the accumulation of food-web complexity; however, we found that both a log-linear (
\i R\super 2 \nosupersub = 
\i0 0.89) and log-log (
\i R\super 2 \nosupersub = 
\i0 0.87) model had relatively low 
\i R\super 2
\i0 \nosupersub  compared to to the Michaelis-Menten (
\i R\super 2
\i0 \nosupersub  = 0.96) as well as highly biased residual distributions.\
}